Streamripper for Winamp (updated 07. June 2006)

This is the quick and dirty HOWTO for the Winamp plug-in of Streamripper.

The following steps switches streamripper on (if you didn't do this during installation)
1.) Go in Winamp to Options, Preferences, Plug-ins, General Purpose
2.) Click on "Streamripper For Winamp" and then click on "Configure selected plug-in"
3.) In the little Window, check the box and click OK
4.) In Systray near the clock doubleclick on the SR icon (the icon will always appear when running winamp)

The following steps should get you going to ripping a stream
1. Go to shoutcast.com and click on a stream
2. The stream should be playing in Winamp, if it's not, click play. On the top of Streamripper you should notice it says like "Press start to rip http://something:port"
3. Click "start"; hope it works.

Note: Streamripper only knowns how to rip mp3, ogg, aac and nsv, and nothing else! If it is another kind of stream, Streamripper indicates "Winamp is not listening to a stream"!!

Note: If you are talking winamp to a stream on media libarary, you need to make sure you have version 5.23 installed as the older versions are no longer compatable with the current media libarary.

Relay Stream:
If you don't have a fat pipe (cable modem/dsl, T1, etc.) you'll want to use Streamripper "relay server". If you don't use the relay server, Streamripper will make a second connection to the stream you are listening too, effectively doubling your bandwidth usage. The relay server is a feature that allows you to listen to the same stream that you are ripping through Streamripper without using extra bandwidth.

To listen through Streamripper relay function click on the box labeled "RLY". Streamripper will add an entry to your playlist. Double click on that playlist entry to listen through the relay.

Why do I get 'SR_ERROR_NOT_SHOUTCAST_STREAM' when trying to connect to my stream?
There are a few reasons why one might get this error:

1. It's not a Shoutcast stream, but it's some other type of stream Streamripper doesn't know how to handle.
2. The stream is blocking players that don't have a 'Winamp/2.x' UserAgent.

The first thing to try is changing the Streamripper UserAgent setting to something else (try 'WinampMPEG/5.0' or 'iTunes/4.7 (Macintosh; N; PPC)' or 'RMA/1.0 (compatible; RealMedia)'). If this doesn't work, right click on the stream Playlist entry in winamp and select 'File Info' and make sure it's a Shoutcast stream.

Why doesn't it split the streams into tracks?
Probably because the stream doesn't contain meta-data. Steamripper knows how to get track data from Shoutcast streams with meta-data. If it's a Shoutcast stream and Winamp doesn't know the track name (showed in the Playlist), then Streamripper won't know either. Also on old Icecast servers, it may not work very well. Old versions of Icecast had very poor meta-data code.

Can streamripper record Windows Media streams and RealAudio streams?
No. (see above!!)

Streamripper and Winamp 5.23
Try adding *.winamp.com and *.shoutcast.com (and possibly also *.aolcdn.com) to the Trusted site zone in IE:
Control Panel > Internet Explorer > Security

The online media listings in Winamp are displayed using the IE engine, and need ActiveX and Javascript.

Winamp 5.23 Online Media
Make sure you checkmarked "Online Media" under the Winamp Library section of the installer options

Then go to: Media Library > click on Online Services in the left pane, and click/checkmark Shoutcast Radio in the right pane (and any other channels of your choice), and then they'll appear in the left pane. Plain sailing from thereon...

Firewall
Naturally must streamripper the full accessed Internet to be permitted. One should adjust that in the Firewall. The same applies to winamp.

Known bugs:
If the winamp Skins directory is not under the default Winamp directory the skin file will not be found, and streamripper will probably crash.

On some machines, the way streamripper gets the current winamp playlist can cause winamp to crash. If you see this happening select the 'Use old way of retrieving the current track from winamp' checkbox in the options dialog.

Usefull Links:

Frequently Asked Questions
http://streamripper.sourceforge.net/faq.php

Console Tutorial
http://streamripper.sourceforge.net/tutorialconsole.php

Skins
http://streamripper.sourceforge.net/srskins.php

Supported Systems
http://streamripper.sourceforge.net/ossupport.php
